4.44.0 changelog (beta) (#4904)
hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta: CHANGELOG.md

* compute: added `default_route_action.weighted_backend_services` field to `google_compute_region_url_map` resource ([#4879](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4879))
* compute: added `preconfigured_waf_config` block to `google_compute_security_policy` resource (beta) ([#4852](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4852))
* compute: modified machine_type field in compute instance resource to accept short name. ([#4849](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4849))
* container: Added `node_config.logging_variant` to `google_container_node_pool`. ([#4889](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4889))
* container: Added `node_pool_defaults.node_config_defaults.logging_variant`, `node_pool.node_config.logging_variant`, and `node_config.logging_variant` to `google_container_cluster`. ([#4889](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4889))
* container: Added support for Shielded Instance configuration for node auto-provisioning to `google_container_cluster` ([#4833](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4833))

> * container: Adding management attribute to the google_container_cluster resource ([#4862](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4862))

Author: ```suggestion
* container: Added management attribute to the google_container_cluster resource ([#4862](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4862))
```

* **New Resource:** `google_identity_platform_project_default_config` ([#4853](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4853))
* **New Resource:** `google_kms_crypto_key_versions` ([#4831](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4831))
* **New Resource:** `google_storage_transfer_agent_pool` ([#4835](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4835))

IMPROVEMENTS:
* bigquery: supported authorized routines on resource `bigquery_dataset` and `bigquery_dataset_access` ([#4855](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4855))
* clouddeploy: Added execution_configs.execution_timeout in target resource. (beta) ([#4849](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4849))
* clouddeploy: Added support for Cloud Run Targets (beta) ([#4849](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4849))
* clouddeploy: Added support for Deployment Verification standard strategy (beta) ([#4849](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4849))

> * cloudidentity: for group resource, made security label settable by making labels updatable ([#4834](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4834))

Author: ```suggestion
* cloudidentity: made security label settable by making labels updatable in `google_cloud_identity_groups` ([#4834](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4834))
```

* compute: added `preconfigured_waf_config` block to `google_compute_security_policy` resource (beta) ([#4852](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4852))
* compute: machine_type field in compute instance resource now accepts short name. ([#4849](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4849))
* compute: promoted `visible_core_count` field of `google_compute_instance` to GA ([#4885](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4885))
* container: Added `node_config.logging_variant` to `google_container_node_pool`. ([#4889](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4889))
* container: Added `node_pool_defaults.node_config_defaults.logging_variant`, `node_pool.node_config.logging_variant`, and `node_config.logging_variant` to `google_container_cluster`. ([#4889](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4889))
* container: Added support for Shielded Instance configuration for node auto-provisioning to `google_container_cluster` ([#4833](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4833))

> * container: Added upgrade_settings attribute to the google_container_cluster resource and promoted min_cpu_platform to GA ([#4848](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4848))

Author: ```suggestion
```
reverted in main branch

* dns: added `gke_clusters` field to `google_dns_response_policy` resource ([#4888](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4888))
* eventarc: Added field `channel` to `google_eventarc_trigger` ([#4876](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4876))
* gkehub: added `mesh` field and `management` subfield to resource `feature_membership` ([#4867](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4867))
* networkservices: Added `aws_v4_authentication ` field to `google_network_services_edge_cache_origin ` to support S3-compatible Origins ([#4875](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4875))
* networkservices: added `signed_token_options` and `add_signatures` field to `google_network_services_edge_cache_service` and `validation_shared_keys` to `google_network_services_edge_cache_keyset` to support dual-token authentication ([#4884](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4884))
* sql: added `query_plan_per_minute` field to `insights_config` in `google_sql_database_instance` resource ([#4840](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4840))

> * vertexai: add fields to `vertex_ai_featurestore_entitytype` to support feature value monitoring ([#4859](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4859))

Author: ```suggestion
* vertexai: added fields to `vertex_ai_featurestore_entitytype` to support feature value monitoring ([#4859](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4859))
```

BUG FIXES:
* apigee: Fixed permadiff on consumer_accept_list for `google_apigee_instance` ([#4883](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4883))
* appengine: Fixed permadiff on serviceaccount for 'google_app_engine_flexible_app_version' ([#4858](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4858))

> * bigtable: update checking ForceNew logic for `kms_key_name` ([#4873](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4873))

Author: ```suggestion
* bigtable: updated ForceNew logic for `kms_key_name` ([#4873](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4873))
```

* bigtable: updated the error handling logic to remove the resource on resource not found error only ([#4841](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4841))
* billingbudget: fixed a bug where `budget_filter.credit_types_treatment` in `google_billing_budget` resource was not updating. ([#4836](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4836))
* cloudbuild: fixed the failure when BITBUCKET is provided for `repo_type` on `google_cloudbuild_trigger` ([#4878](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4878))
* cloudids: fix `endpoint_forwarding_rule` and `endpoint_ip` attributes for `google_cloud_ids_endpoint` ([#4843](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4843))
* compute: fixed perma-diff on `google_compute_disk` for new amd64 images ([#4847](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4847))

> * compute: made `target_https_proxy` possible to set `ssl_certificates` and `certificate_map` at the same time ([#4839](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4839))

Author: ```suggestion
* compute: made `target_https_proxy` possible to set `ssl_certificates` and `certificate_map` in `google_compute_target_https_proxy`  at the same time ([#4839](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/4839))
```
